---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: Development
author: admin
author_login: blogadmin
author_email: info@edmondscommerce.co.uk
author_url: http://www.edmondscommerce.co.uk
wordpress_id: 1412
wordpress_url: http://localhost/projects/wordpress/?page_id=13
date: 2010-02-24 17:58:15.000000000 +00:00
categories:
- php
tags:
- edmondscommerce
---
<div class="oldpost"><h4>This is an old post. The information it contains is probably out of date or innacurate</h4>
<p>
This is a post that was written a long time ago and is only being kept here for posterity.
You should probably look up more recent blog posts related to the subject you are researching
</p>
</div>
<h1>Ecommerce Developers</h1>
<h2>Custom Magento Development</h2>
<p>Magento is in our opinion the best e-commerce platform available at the moment, paid for or not. The range of features that are bundled with Magento as standard are staggering. However as there are so many different kinds of business with such a variety of requirements, even Magento can not satisfy everyone's specific requirements.</p>
<p> If Magento doesn't do something as standard, there is a good chance that you will be able to find a Magento extension that will offer the functionality you need. We will happily advise you on this and will always try to meet your requirements in the most cost effective way by utilising existing extensions wherever possible. In those circumstances though where there is not a currently available extension that meets the requirements, we are more than happy to create a custom module for you to make Magento work exactly the way that you want.
</p>
<p>Edmonds Commerce is ready to help you with your web development needs. No matter if you are looking for a simple customisation of your existing web systems or if you are looking for a complete overhaul or entirely new system, we are ready to help you get the online system that you want and for the right price.</p><h2>Modern Web Development</h2><p>The web has become much more than online paper. Interactive content and database driven web sites are now the norm. The technology allows us to handle huge web sites filled with content and somehow magically keep it all up to date and hold it all together. If you want to achieve more with less expenditure of effort and capital then speak to us about ways to achieve this. Don't just work hard: work smart.</p> <h2>Microsoft or Not?</h2><p>Edmonds Commerce do not recommend using Microsoft products to run a web site. There are many reasons for this including cost, ease of use, flexibility, security, reliability and performance. All of the web development technology that Edmonds Commerce recommends is designed to run on the linux operating system. Instead Edmonds Commerce recommends using the LAMP stack . The LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, <a href="mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> and <a href="php/" title="Information Explaining PHP">PHP</a>) is one of the most popular web server platforms for modern dynamic web sites today and for good reason.</p><h2>Linux Server Operating System</h2> Whilst linux is not a very popular desktop operating system, it is an incredibly popular server operating system. You may be concerned that as you are only familiar with Microsoft products, you should stick to Microsoft for your server platform. This is not a sound basis on which to make the decision as unlike a desktop operating system such as Windows, you will very rarely, if ever,  interact with your server operating system. Essentially a server is set up for you and apart from maintainence which will be carried out by your hosting provider will not need to be interacted with. insteas all you will do is upload the occasional files using FTP and use the online applications that are installed on your server. In this sense you will not notice any difference between any server operating system. <h2>Apache</h2><p>Apache is <a href="http://www.securityspace.com/s_survey/data/200712/index.html" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">by far the most popular</a> HTTP system used on web servers today. It is hugely configurable and powerful with vast resources and support allowing you to make it work in exactly the way you want. Some of the great features that you will use in Apache are virtual domains and URL rewriting. Virtual domains allow you to host as many individual domain names and web sites on your server as you wish. You can manage all of these sites on one server which makes life very easy and saves a lot of money on hosting. URL rewriting is a very powerful and useful system allowing you to use more friendly urls such as www.mysite.com/garden-tools/spade.123.html for a product page of a spade instead of www.mysite.com/product_page.php?category=1234&amp;product=123. This makes things nicer for your users and also helps you in your <a href="../development/seo" title="Information Explaining SEO">SEO</a> efforts.</p> <h2>PHP and MySQL</h2><p>PHP is a programming language that has been in development for well over a decade and is now up to version 5. It is very powerful and yet can be incredibly simple to use. <a href="php/" title="Information Explaining PHP">PHP</a> is a scripting language which means that it can be used to make simple programmes and add logic to a <a href="../development/websites" title="Information Explaining Website">Website</a>. This allows us to create rich, interactive and dynamic web sites with ease. <a href="mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> is one of the most popular open source implementations of the SQL database system. It is also highly developed and is currently on version 5 also. <a href="mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> allows us to retrieve specific information relating to particular quieries at lighting speed. It is a relational database which means that we can have multiple tables and pull up data according to multiple conditions across multiple tables. Combining <a href="php/" title="Information Explaining PHP">PHP</a> and <a href="mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> give us almost unlimited possiblities for creating rich applications online.</p>
