---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: PHP
author: admin
author_login: blogadmin
author_email: info@edmondscommerce.co.uk
author_url: http://www.edmondscommerce.co.uk
wordpress_id: 1453
wordpress_url: http://localhost/projects/edmondscommerce/liveblog/?page_id=1453
date: 2010-03-02 13:47:44.000000000 +00:00
categories:
- php
tags:
- edmondscommerce
---
<div class="oldpost"><h4>This is an old post. The information it contains is probably out of date or innacurate</h4>
<p>
This is a post that was written a long time ago and is only being kept here for posterity.
You should probably look up more recent blog posts related to the subject you are researching
</p>
</div>
<h1>PHP Hypertext Preprocessor</h1><br/>Edmonds Commerce are ready to help you with your PHP projects, no matter if you want a simple customisation to your existing platform or if you are looking to implement an entirely new solution. <a href="../../contact-us/">Contact us today</a> to see how you can use our PHP development services.</p>

<h2>Zend Certified Developers</h2>
The company behind PHP is <a href="http://www.zend.com/en/" target="_blank">Zend</a>. They have a well established certification program whereby developers can sit an exam to verify their skills as a PHP developer. The exam covers a broad and challenging range of topics and it is fair to say that any PHP developer that has sat the exam has a good broad knowledge of PHP and its many attributes and abilities. On passing the exam the developer becomes a <a href="http://www.zend.com/services/certification/php-5-certification/" target="_blank">Zend Certified Engineer</a>, often abreviated to ZCE.

All of the developers at Edmonds Commerce are Zend Certified or if they have joined recently they might be sitting it soon. In general we expect developers to have passed the exam within three months of joining our team if they were not already certified.  

<h2>LAMP Stack</h2>
One of the four key components of the LAMP Stack, PHP is one of the most popular programming languages in use in web development today. It has been around since the early nineties and has always been focussed on being the tool of choice to create dynamic web sites. Edmonds Commerce have years of experience in PHP and have used to create all kinds of online system, both customer facing and back end.

<h2>Free Software, Blue Chip</h2>
A common mistake made by those not too familiar with web technologies is to expect that you will "get what you pay for", meaning that any thing that is without cost must be an inferior option. Whilst PHP is free, this is due to the way it has been developed in an open source format. Like many other open source and free web technologies the absolute opposite is true, the best option is open source and therefore without cost. If you need convincing that PHP is a suitable system for creating serious web sites, how about this for a line up: Yahoo, Facebook, Youtube to name but a few.

<h2>Open Source Packages</h2>
Being such a well developed and supported programming language, it is perhaps unsurprising to see that there are a great many highly developed and functional PHP based open source platforms already in existence which with a bit of modification can be used to set up the most usual forms of web sites with very little outlay compared to completely bespoke programming. PHP and <a href="../mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> are essential components for running popular content management systems such as Joomla!, WordPress and Drupal. Wikipedia runs on MediaWiki software, which is written in PHP and uses a <a href="../mysql/" title="Information Explaining MySQL">MySQL</a> database. In e-commerce we have one of the most powerful open source PHP applications of all time - <a href="/platforms/magento">Magento</a>.
