---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: OpenCart
author: admin
author_login: blogadmin
author_email: info@edmondscommerce.co.uk
author_url: http://www.edmondscommerce.co.uk
wordpress_id: 3403
wordpress_url: http://www.edmondscommerce.co.uk/?page_id=3403
date: 2012-09-11 14:28:35.000000000 +01:00
categories: []
tags:
- edmondscommerce
---
<h3>OpenCart Summary</h3>

OpenCart started life as the university project of a highly skilled developer called Daniel Kerr who decided to launch the platform as an open source project. The platform was originally targeted at small to SME level businesses and the goal was to provide a platform that was easy to use an implement and yet featured modern design styles and some nice Web 2.0 style dynamic elements.

As the name suggest, OpenCart is entirely free open source and unlike <a href="/platforms/magento/" title="magento platform summary">Magento</a> does not have any kind of paid for premium version. The code is currently being hosted on GitHub and is free for anyone to fork, download, implement and develop upon.

<h3>Headline OpenCart Features</h3>

OpenCart features everything you would expect from a modern shopping cart system. In particular though here are some of the things we think are most attractive in comparison to other modern open source shopping cart platforms.

<h4>Shared Hosting Friendly</h4>
OpenCart will run nicely on fairly modest shared hosting. Of course if you have a high traffic or very large or demanding site then you will need beefier hosting to support this. In general though you will find OpenCart by its very nature will require less hosting resources for the same level of traffic than a more powerful but heavy system such as Magento.

<h4>Simple, Slick Front End</h4>
The front end of the platform features everything you would expect and thanks to tasteful use of jQuery to add interactive elements to the site has some nice modern features such as a lightbox image viewer and tabbed product information. The design is clean and clear by design with little to distract the user from the core function of browsing and purchasing products.

<h4>Internationalisation</h4>
Open Cart supports multiple languages, currencies, tax rates and even multiple store fronts out of the box. This means that you can easily have a fully international site with separate store fronts or simply offer a currency switcher and/or language switcher on your single store front to cater for international customers.

<h4>Business to Business Functionality</h4>
If you are selling to businesses and perhaps offer different pricing to consumers, businesses and larger customers then you will love the B2B features of OpenCart. You can define customer groups and assign customers to a group and then offer those customer groups different prices for the same products. For example your default price on an item for a consumer could be £9.99 however you might offer it B2B and 8.99 and have a sub set of wholesalers who you offer the item to at 6.99.

You can further extend this functionality by offering quantity discounts and link this up to the customer groups meaning that you could offer very good quantity discounts to your wholesale customer group and also offer some incentive to your B2C customers by offering discounts on multiples.

If you are focussing primarily on trade and wholesale customers, you can hide all pricing unless they are logged in. This is great for maintaining your SEO position and having your products and pages fully accessible by the public and search engines whilst maintaining confidentiality on your actual prices.

<h3>Give it a Test Drive</h3>

If it sounds like OpenCart might be the right solution for you then we suggest you give it a whirl. You can access the demo's of the front end and administration areas <a href="http://www.opencart.com/index.php?route=demonstration/demonstration" title="OpenCart demo" target="_blank">here</a>.



